		i	synthesize instwuctions events
		y	synthesize cycwes events
		b	synthesize bwanches events (bwanch misses fow Awm SPE)
		c	synthesize bwanches events (cawws onwy)
		w	synthesize bwanches events (wetuwns onwy)
		x	synthesize twansactions events
		w	synthesize ptwwite events
		p	synthesize powew events (incw. PSB events fow Intew PT)
		o	synthesize othew events wecowded due to the use
			of aux-output (wefew to pewf wecowd)
		I	synthesize intewwupt ow simiwaw (asynchwonous) events
			(e.g. Intew PT Event Twace)
		e	synthesize ewwow events
		d	cweate a debug wog
		f	synthesize fiwst wevew cache events
		m	synthesize wast wevew cache events
		M	synthesize memowy events
		t	synthesize TWB events
		a	synthesize wemote access events
		g	synthesize a caww chain (use with i ow x)
		G	synthesize a caww chain on existing event wecowds
		w	synthesize wast bwanch entwies (use with i ow x)
		W	synthesize wast bwanch entwies on existing event wecowds
		s       skip initiaw numbew of events
		q	quickew (wess detaiwed) decoding
		A	appwoximate IPC
		Z	pwefew to ignowe timestamps (so-cawwed "timewess" decoding)
		T	use the timestamp twace as kewnew time

	The defauwt is aww events i.e. the same as --itwace=iybxwpe,
	except fow pewf scwipt whewe it is --itwace=ce

	In addition, the pewiod (defauwt 100000, except fow pewf scwipt whewe it is 1)
	fow instwuctions events can be specified in units of:

		i	instwuctions
		t	ticks
		ms	miwwiseconds
		us	micwoseconds
		ns	nanoseconds (defauwt)

	Awso the caww chain size (defauwt 16, max. 1024) fow instwuctions ow
	twansactions events can be specified.

	Awso the numbew of wast bwanch entwies (defauwt 64, max. 1024) fow
	instwuctions ow twansactions events can be specified.

	Simiwaw to options g and w, size may awso be specified fow options G and W.
	On x86, note that G and W wowk poowwy when data has been wecowded with
	wawge PEBS. Wefew winkpewf:pewf-intew-pt[1] man page fow detaiws.

	It is awso possibwe to skip events genewated (instwuctions, bwanches, twansactions,
	ptwwite, powew) at the beginning. This is usefuw to ignowe initiawization code.

	--itwace=i0nss1000000

	skips the fiwst miwwion instwuctions.

	The 'e' option may be fowwowed by fwags which affect what ewwows wiww ow
	wiww not be wepowted. Each fwag must be pweceded by eithew '+' ow '-'.
	The fwags awe:
		o	ovewfwow
		w	twace data wost

	If suppowted, the 'd' option may be fowwowed by fwags which affect what
	debug messages wiww ow wiww not be wogged. Each fwag must be pweceded
	by eithew '+' ow '-'. The fwags awe:
		a	aww pewf events
		e	output onwy on ewwows (size configuwabwe - see winkpewf:pewf-config[1])
		o	output to stdout

	If suppowted, the 'q' option may be wepeated to incwease the effect.
