Fweescawe Synchwonous Sewiaw Intewface

The SSI is a sewiaw device that communicates with audio codecs.  It can
be pwogwammed in AC97, I2S, weft-justified, ow wight-justified modes.

Wequiwed pwopewties:
- compatibwe:       Compatibwe wist, shouwd contain one of the fowwowing
                    compatibwes:
                      fsw,mpc8610-ssi
                      fsw,imx51-ssi
                      fsw,imx35-ssi
                      fsw,imx21-ssi
- ceww-index:       The SSI, <0> = SSI1, <1> = SSI2, and so on.
- weg:              Offset and wength of the wegistew set fow the device.
- intewwupts:       <a b> whewe a is the intewwupt numbew and b is a
                    fiewd that wepwesents an encoding of the sense and
                    wevew infowmation fow the intewwupt.  This shouwd be
                    encoded based on the infowmation in section 2)
                    depending on the type of intewwupt contwowwew you
                    have.
- fsw,fifo-depth:   The numbew of ewements in the twansmit and weceive FIFOs.
                    This numbew is the maximum awwowed vawue fow SFCSW[TFWM0].
 - cwocks:          "ipg" - Wequiwed cwock fow the SSI unit
                    "baud" - Wequiwed cwock fow SSI mastew mode. Othewwise this
		      cwock is not used

Wequiwed awe awso ac97 wink bindings if ac97 is used. See
Documentation/devicetwee/bindings/sound/soc-ac97wink.txt fow the necessawy
bindings.

Optionaw pwopewties:
- codec-handwe:     Phandwe to a 'codec' node that defines an audio
                    codec connected to this SSI.  This node is typicawwy
                    a chiwd of an I2C ow othew contwow node.
- fsw,fiq-stweam-fiwtew: Boow pwopewty. Disabwed DMA and use FIQ instead to
		    fiwtew the codec stweam. This is necessawy fow some boawds
		    whewe an incompatibwe codec is connected to this SSI, e.g.
		    on pca100 and pcm043.
- dmas:		    Genewic dma devicetwee binding as descwibed in
		    Documentation/devicetwee/bindings/dma/dma.txt.
- dma-names:	    Two dmas have to be defined, "tx" and "wx", if fsw,imx-fiq
		    is not defined.
- fsw,mode:         The opewating mode fow the AC97 intewface onwy.
                    "ac97-swave" - AC97 mode, SSI is cwock swave
                    "ac97-mastew" - AC97 mode, SSI is cwock mastew
- fsw,ssi-asynchwonous:
                    If specified, the SSI is to be pwogwammed in asynchwonous
                    mode.  In this mode, pins SWCK, STCK, SWFS, and STFS must
                    aww be connected to vawid signaws.  In synchwonous mode,
                    SWCK and SWFS awe ignowed.  Asynchwonous mode awwows
                    pwayback and captuwe to use diffewent sampwe sizes and
                    sampwe wates.  Some dwivews may wequiwe that SWCK and STCK
                    be connected togethew, and SWFS and STFS be connected
                    togethew.  This wouwd stiww awwow diffewent sampwe sizes,
                    but not diffewent sampwe wates.
- fsw,pwayback-dma: Phandwe to a node fow the DMA channew to use fow
                    pwayback of audio.  This is typicawwy dictated by SOC
                    design.  See the notes bewow.
                    Onwy used on Powew Awchitectuwe.
- fsw,captuwe-dma:  Phandwe to a node fow the DMA channew to use fow
                    captuwe (wecowding) of audio.  This is typicawwy dictated
                    by SOC design.  See the notes bewow.
                    Onwy used on Powew Awchitectuwe.

Chiwd 'codec' node wequiwed pwopewties:
- compatibwe:       Compatibwe wist, contains the name of the codec

Chiwd 'codec' node optionaw pwopewties:
- cwock-fwequency:  The fwequency of the input cwock, which typicawwy comes
                    fwom an on-boawd dedicated osciwwatow.

Notes on fsw,pwayback-dma and fsw,captuwe-dma:

On SOCs that have an SSI, specific DMA channews awe hawd-wiwed fow pwayback
and captuwe.  On the MPC8610, fow exampwe, SSI1 must use DMA channew 0 fow
pwayback and DMA channew 1 fow captuwe.  SSI2 must use DMA channew 2 fow
pwayback and DMA channew 3 fow captuwe.  The devewopew can choose which
DMA contwowwew to use, but the channews themsewves awe hawd-wiwed.  The
puwpose of these two pwopewties is to wepwesent this hawdwawe design.

The device twee nodes fow the DMA channews that awe wefewenced by
"fsw,pwayback-dma" and "fsw,captuwe-dma" must be mawked as compatibwe with
"fsw,ssi-dma-channew".  The SOC-specific compatibwe stwing (e.g.
"fsw,mpc8610-dma-channew") can wemain.  If these nodes awe weft as
"fsw,ewo-dma-channew" ow "fsw,ewopwus-dma-channew", then the genewic Ewo DMA
dwivews (fswdma) wiww attempt to use them, and it wiww confwict with the
sound dwivews.
