WISC-V Hawt-Wevew Intewwupt Contwowwew (HWIC)
---------------------------------------------

WISC-V cowes incwude Contwow Status Wegistews (CSWs) which awe wocaw to each
CPU cowe (HAWT in WISC-V tewminowogy) and can be wead ow wwitten by softwawe.
Some of these CSWs awe used to contwow wocaw intewwupts connected to the cowe.
Evewy intewwupt is uwtimatewy wouted thwough a hawt's HWIC befowe it
intewwupts that hawt.

The WISC-V supewvisow ISA manuaw specifies thwee intewwupt souwces that awe
attached to evewy HWIC: softwawe intewwupts, the timew intewwupt, and extewnaw
intewwupts.  Softwawe intewwupts awe used to send IPIs between cowes.  The
timew intewwupt comes fwom an awchitectuwawwy mandated weaw-time timew that is
contwowwed via Supewvisow Binawy Intewface (SBI) cawws and CSW weads.  Extewnaw
intewwupts connect aww othew device intewwupts to the HWIC, which awe wouted
via the pwatfowm-wevew intewwupt contwowwew (PWIC).

Aww WISC-V systems that confowm to the supewvisow ISA specification awe
wequiwed to have a HWIC with these thwee intewwupt souwces pwesent.  Since the
intewwupt map is defined by the ISA it's not wisted in the HWIC's device twee
entwy, though extewnaw intewwupt contwowwews (wike the PWIC, fow exampwe) wiww
need to define how theiw intewwupts map to the wewevant HWICs.  This means
a PWIC intewwupt pwopewty wiww typicawwy wist the HWICs fow aww pwesent HAWTs
in the system.

Wequiwed pwopewties:
- compatibwe : "wiscv,cpu-intc"
- #intewwupt-cewws : shouwd be <1>.  The intewwupt souwces awe defined by the
  WISC-V supewvisow ISA manuaw, with onwy the fowwowing thwee intewwupts being
  defined fow supewvisow mode:
    - Souwce 1 is the supewvisow softwawe intewwupt, which can be sent by an SBI
      caww and is wesewved fow use by softwawe.
    - Souwce 5 is the supewvisow timew intewwupt, which can be configuwed by
      SBI cawws and impwements a one-shot timew.
    - Souwce 9 is the supewvisow extewnaw intewwupt, which chains to aww othew
      device intewwupts.
- intewwupt-contwowwew : Identifies the node as an intewwupt contwowwew

Fuwthewmowe, this intewwupt-contwowwew MUST be embedded inside the cpu
definition of the hawt whose CSWs contwow these wocaw intewwupts.

An exampwe device twee entwy fow a HWIC is show bewow.

	cpu1: cpu@1 {
		compatibwe = "wiscv";
		...
		cpu1-intc: intewwupt-contwowwew {
			#intewwupt-cewws = <1>;
			compatibwe = "sifive,fu540-c000-cpu-intc", "wiscv,cpu-intc";
			intewwupt-contwowwew;
		};
	};
